The Joe Rogan experience.
There's always been that situation too, where you have these really hungry,
talented artists,
and they get taken advantage of by whether it's executives or who,
whoever is the, the money,
people that figure out how to lock these people into some long term contract,
where the lion share of all their work and creativity is gonna be, uh,
enjoyed by the company and not by the artist themselves.
You always have these crazy.
That part of the model. I mean, hopefully there's enough pie to go around.
Everybody is kind of okay with that. I mean,
there's a certain number you get to where you probably don't care anymore,
how much they're making, cuz you're making so much also, you know, but uh,
but that model, the then that's that that's not a mystery, especially if you're,
but coming up the times I, when I came up,
like we already knew all that is if you got,
if you got locked into a bad record contract where somebody screwed you over,
like it's kind of on you a little bit. It wasn't like it's not the fifties,
the sixties where like we stepped into things and didn't know, uh,
and it has nothing with my background. I never got screwed over though.
The worst people I've ever met in this business from the bands, they were not,
they were not the labels because you know who they are,
you know what they're doing. They don't really change. You're not gonna be,
you won't be fooled. You know, it's the people that you,
you have camaraderie with that you think are in the trenches with you,
that you find out like those are the people let you down more that you get
hoodwinked by the business. People you that's no secret what they're doing.
Have you been.
You've been hoodwinked by other artists. Every.
Everybody has really. Yeah. I just, I'm not,
I'm not making a point about artists are. I'm just saying the, the big,
bad record business. Like not, not for me, not my days.
I've worked with some great people, you know, some really supportive, uh, um,
positive people. Who've been great part of my career, you know? And I,
I actually can't, I can only name like I can name 30 years. Maybe like one,
one or two people I came across who I hope I never see again in that end of the
business. Otherwise, like that's a pretty good ratio.
That is a very good ratio.
So essentially there's always gonna be people that take advantage of people that
don't really understand or are too eager and accept a bad contract.
Yeah. But there's no excuses for not reading that. And we're just too far along.
Like you just, it shouldn't be that easy to fool someone today.
I've been offered a lot of bad contracts. Yeah. But I didn't sign them either,
you know? Right. It's that same.
Kind of situation.
And I've been in situations where I've looked at a contract and it's,
that's the nature of most business, you know,
someone's gonna do better than somebody else. Right.
So when you look at that and you realize,
it looks like you are no matter what gonna do this, isn't a good situation.
Like it's, I don't take that as like a personal attacker. It's like, okay, well,
this is isn't good for me. It's not good. What is,
I'll go find somewhere else to do this. Just.
They're just establishing rules for the game for you.
But there's no conec. Yeah. Right. But they're in, they're in business. Right.
Right. You know, it's like, again, prince, what was his, uh, what did he say?
They.
Owned his name. Right.
I think it was something, uh, they I'm gonna get the quote wrong,
but somewhere around the time where he changed his just assembly and,
and they said something about,
somebody said something to about the record business. He said, no,
I'm not in the record business. You're in the record business. I make music,
you know? And that's, that's kind of, it it's that it's true, but they're not,
there's no, there's no similarities to them. There's no reason that you have a,
that you're a great talent that you should also have a great understanding of
the business side of things. You're not really interconnected for most people,
but we are far enough along now where hopefully you have somebody with you and
things are more transparent that you shouldn't get locked into these horrible
deals.
Anymore.
Do you remember when Courtney love wrote that piece where she was
explaining the music? I think it was in spin Mac magazine,
where she was explaining the music business in terms of like where the money
goes and how they over artists. Do you remember that?
I don't remember that, but then don't get in the music business.
<laugh> that's not new. I mean, that's not, is that a revelation? Did you,
did you read that? And we're like, wow. Like, it.
Was shocking to me because I'm not in the music business. So to me, I was like,
wow. So that's how they do it. Yeah. I was, I was confused like when it went.
Into like how much, you know, if you're a band,
people bands don't do this anymore. If your band sells 2 million records,
everybody in that, band's probably making a lot of money buying houses. Right.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> and that CD cost $18. Like you're making your money.
You're pretty happy. It's only down the road where someone says, okay, you guys,
you did buy house. Did you see how much that they made?
And you are shocked first second to realize you take that seat and you divide it
up between yourselves, your band and what the record. Yeah.
They make a lot more than you. Mm that's why they're in the record business.
That's what's and they're, you know,
some of them are too smart to be in the bands.
Or not smart.
Enough. Well, it depends on what, what you can handle if you can.
I couldn't handle that kind of last time myself. I don't, I don't want, I I'm,
I, I invent things. That thing, I don't want to be somebody who I have to,
my whole livelihood is reactionary to other people creating something that I can
now work with. Right. That's I want make it from scratch.
Yeah. That's a weird situation to be in relying upon other people's creativity.
Yeah. For you to make a.
Living. Yeah. And, but, you know,
you can do that when you don't have a com you don't have a,
a creative bone in your body. Some people are really good at numbers in math.
Some people are really creative, you know? And if you recognize early on, well,
I would like to be, I mean,
that's a lot of the great people who work outside of bands once wanted to be in
a band, but realized like, I don't have it. I love music,
but I wanna be a part of it. Anyway. I wanna help someone else do great things,
you know? Right. But I, I'm not the guy to be in the band or the girl. You,
if you.
Have your own music and you own your music, what is,
what does a record label do for you in 2021?
Well, what do you mean if you own your own music, if you like.
If you create your own music, right? Mm-hmm <affirmative>, if you say you hire,
what.
Could a record label do for you?
They have money that you don't have to promote and spend you on tour. You know,
young bands need, they can't, you know, a van or no van,
it costs money to tour a lot, you know? So.
That's something, they basically loan you the money.
Yeah. That's what, that's how they can be good for a young band really,
or any band, any, you know, it's like, otherwise you, you don't have the tools,
the assets to get your music in lots of places. I mean,
there's more up opportunities with social media, of course. And it's, you know,
look, the good news is anybody can do it now. And the bad news is,
anybody can do it now just means it's crowded. And there's just like,
it's hard to know what anybody's up to. You know, but now record labels.
They can still have a great, they have a great purpose. Of course, you know,
they're, some people say they're banks, they're just funding your trip.
And you have, you have a big bill at the end and they.
Have a connection to streaming services.
And yeah, they have all those contacts that, that you, uh,
that you wouldn't have on.
Your own. Now, when a person is like, say,
you're a new band and you get signed by a record company, uh,
how does someone and find out about you? I mean,
what is the primary way they find out about you? If it's not the radio,
which it always used to be,
do they find out about you through streaming services? Like,
are there channels that are sponsored that people get excited about?
Because they know that this channels where new interesting music gets broken.
We're both gonna do some homework. We're gonna do some homework catalyst.
And if I find out a let you know, I mean, really that's the, well,
that's the question. I don't know. I mean, because there's,
it's just jammed up everywhere, you know?
So a lot of great things about the way things work now,
the models that we had before were really effective too.
And at least you could put yourself on a path that if you did X, Y, and Z,
maybe your band would get a shot, you know, play your clubs, get your demo,
tape together, maybe a record, but he wants to work with you.
And they're gonna give you some money to practice. You know,
you make that record, you make a video and you go,
they give you some money to go on tour.
Like this was a path to maybe be in a band that was successful.
So you take that away. You know, it is just every man for the,
every man and woman for themselves, just, you know,
trying to find a way to quote, unquote kind, get lucky. Mm. You know,
if you're an established act, you go out op, you got opportunities.
If you're doing it the other way, you're just, it's really,
everybody's trying to get lucky. And then by the,
and when someone sees what that person did by the time you figured out it's too
late, it's gotta do something else, everyone. That's what it is. I mean,
as far as I know, you know, but I'm also not brand new. Like I,
if I was 21 years old, they probably understand this better than I do. You know?
I, the way I came up was just a different, I mean,
it was just a different model and that's okay. That a lot of that's gone.
I mean, it's changed so drastically. I mean,
you remember in the late like nineties, remember,
you know what the diamond award was? No, that's when they had to invent it,
there was, you know, the gold record platinum record. There wasn't enough.
People were going like 12 times platinum. So they invented the diamond award,
which was 10 billion. Whoa. The diamond award. Yeah.
That's how much money was going around in those days before the internet.
Really? How many.
People buy CDs today? They still sell.
I don't know where you buy one online, I guess, I guess, uh, Amazon. Yeah.
There's still, I mean, yeah. I mean, I, I guess you,
where are you gonna play it? I mean,
let's lap laptops aren't even have hard drives. I think vinyl sells more than.
CDs right now, but I'm gonna get a breakdown real quick. That's interesting.
What.
Is it? Oh, for sure. No, no, it actually flopped. They don't,
it was for a while, like a bonus. If your company wanna spend some money,
make vinyl with you now it's kind of like, you can throw in CDs,
but the production of that is like, you know, yeah.
It's the cardboard you put around. It's cool.
Now to have vinyl. Yeah. CDs. Don't they don't seem cool, but.
Why would you have C I mean, streaming is one thing. I mean, CDs are ohoh.
Wow. Streaming's 83% of music industry venue. Wow.
Sync. What is sync.
That's to get new songs in TV and commercials and media.
Licenses. That's 2% physical. 9% is, uh,
physical. So that's live performances.
No, physical is a combination of CDs and LPs and.
Oh, physical things. I get it. And then digital loads are 6%.
So physical copies are just.
9%. So taking up the bulk of that pie right there, and then that breaking.
Here streaming takes up the bulk of the pie. So, yeah. Oh, interesting.
So CDs and it's kind of, uh, in.
2020, what is happening in, in 2020? It says, what, uh.
It's more vinyl than it is CD and other.
What are we looking at? That's the green and the blue that's oh, CD.
Vinyl. The green is vinyl, which is the largest, well.
You know, vinyl's not like blowing up. Anybody tells you it's back.
It's not like it's not, it's not, you know, not buying kiss,
not like kiss records in those days. Right. It's for,
it's a boutiquey kind of thing. It's cool.
Catch new episodes. The Joe Rogan experience for free only on spot,
watch back catalog JRE videos on Spotify, including clips,
easily seamlessly switch between video and audio experience
on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data cost. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan experience.